A long time ago, there was a landlord. He had a big garden at the border of a forest. That garden was very special to him. But it was very big, so he could not take care of it. So, he hired a gardener to take care of his garden. The gardener was very loyal to his employer. He was also very good at looking after the garden.
When summer came, the gardener had to water the plants every day without missing them. So, he did not get any holiday. But, he knew that if he took even one day off, the plant would not get any water and would dry up. Whenever he approached his employer to give him a day off, he said, “I do not see anyone else doing your work. So tell me, who will water the plants if you take a day off? I cannot give you a holiday knowing there is no one else to water my plants.”
Upon hearing his employer’s reply, the gardener was frightened and could not say anything to convince his employer to grant him a day’s leave. The same thing repeatedly happened whenever the gardener asked for a holiday from the landlord.
One day, there was an annual temple festival at the gardener’s village. He wanted to take a day off and enjoy the festival with his family. But he could not ask the landlord to grant him a day’s leave. The gardener decided that no matter what, he would enjoy this festival. So he made up a plan. He approached a group of monkeys living in a forest. The gardener carefully went to the king of the monkeys and told him that he had come to ask for their help. “I am a gardener at the landlord’s house living at the forest border. But he is cruel and does not let me take leave.”
When the monkeys nodded to acknowledge the landlord’s house, the gardener said, “Tomorrow, there is an annual temple festival in my village. But the landlord would not let me take a day off. Can you please help me?” The monkey replied, “How can I or my subjects help you? We are not gardeners.” The gardener told the monkey that all they needed to do was water the plants. “I will give you pots and vessels to all of you. Just take them to the nearby river, fill them with water, and water each plant.”
The monkey king said to the gardener, “Do not worry! You go and enjoy the annual festival with your family. We shall take care of the garden.” Hearing this, the gardener became very happy and relieved. He thought now he would be able to enjoy a day with his family members. But the monkeys were confused about how much water to pour into each plant. So, they enquired about it to their king. The monkey king said, “water each plant according to its roots.” When the monkeys asked how they could find the plants' roots, the king replied, “pull them out and water them.”
On the festival day, the monkey removed all the plants and watered them. Once they finished watering the plants, they replanted them in a haphazard (organising something without following any principle) manner. The next morning, when the gardener was strolling in the garden, he saw that all the plants were drying up. Seeing that, he got so angry and dismissed the gardener.
Moral
Do not depend on anyone to do your work.

